---
title: Overpass 3
category: [infosec, write-ups]
tags: [overpass, tryhackme]
---
# Overpass 3  - Hosting

> After Overpass's rocky start in infosec, and the commercial failure of their password manager and subsequent hack, they've decided to try a new business venture. 

## Goal 

Hack the machine and get three flags: 

- Web Flag
- User Flag
- Root Flag

## Initial Recon
Nmap shows us an HTTP server on Apache running on port 80,
There is also an FTP server on port 21, and SSH on port 22

A Gobuster reveals a "/backups" directory.

I also looked for a robots.txt but there was nothing to be found there.

Backups folder has a private key (priv.key) in a zip file, as well as as a 
encrypted spreadsheet file (CustomerDetails.xlsx.gpg)

Can I use this private key to decrypt the customer details?

I imported the private key into my GPG keychain, and was able to use it to
decrypt the CustomerDetails.xlsx.gpg file. Opening it in LibreOffice, I was
provided with some credentials of three users, with passwords in plaintext. As
well as some credit card numbers.

I was unable to SSH in using any of these credentials, as they were secured using
key based authentication, and the GPG isn't any use for that.

I was however able to log into the FTP server as the `paradox` user.

Nothing interesting here, but I'm able to upload to the webserver, so I uploaded
a PHP reverse shell from [pentestmonkey](https://github.com/pentestmonkey/php-reverse-shell/blob/master/php-reverse-shell).


Setting up a web-listener... 
```bash
nc -lnvp 9999
```
I got a shell!

Took quite a bit of searching, but eventually I find the web flag with this command.

```bash
find / -name *flag* 2>/dev/null
```

Now that I had the web flag, I tried switching laterally to another user. The
only user in this box that I had a credential for (from the spreadsheet) was
`paradox`. The shell I was using currently was pretty unstable, so I appended
my public key to paradox's `authorized_keys` file, and logged in via SSH
directly. I couldn't see anything obvious, and no user flag yet, so I uploaded
`linpeas.sh` using curl.

This next part took me a good long while, but I've not experienced NFS services
before. This is the key part of the linpeas output that indicates a PE vector.  


```
╔══════════╣ Analyzing NFS Exports Files (limit 70)
-rw-r--r--. 1 root root 54 Nov 18  2020 /etc/exports
/home/james *(rw,fsid=0,sync,no_root_squash,insecure)
```
This section on hacktricks was useful reading:
[NFS no_root_squash/no_all_squash misconfiguration PE](https://book.hacktricks.xyz/linux-hardening/privilege-escalation/nfs-no_root_squash-misconfiguration-pe)

Running 
```bash
rpcinfo -p | grep nfs
```
revealed there was indeed a NFS server running on port 2049. However it was
only accessable to localhost, I couldn't see it from my attacker box. I can't
make use of it on the remote box because I don't have a root user.

Again a lot of floundering here! I eventually discovered I was able tunnel the
internal 2049 port via SSH.

```
ssh paradox@10.10.64.218 -L 2049:127.0.0.1:2049
```

I was now able to see the remote share from my attacker box. From here I could
see the `james` users flag, and was able to add my public key to james'
`authorized_keys` file and log in via SSH.

I mounted the share onto a local directory and tried copying the bash binary
across from my attacker box, with a suid bit set (`chmod +s bash`), but was
getting some errors thrown when trying to execute this as James, which I put
down to the builds being incompatible, I then just (as james) copied the local
version of bash into james home folder, then on my attacker box, chown'd it as
root and set the suid bit.

This worked, and I was able to execute this version of bash using `-p` to (to
run in priviledged mode, and not drop the file owners permissions). I now had a
root shell and was able to retrieve the final flag :)

